## Abstract: The Evolution of the Unix Time-sharing System
Main idea:
1. the evolution of the file system
2. the process-control mechanism
3. idea of the pipelined commands

### PDP-7 Unix file system:
Main features:
1. An i-list, a linear array of i-nodes each describing a file. An i-node contained at least protection mode of the file, its type and size, and the list of physical blocks holding the contents.
2. Directories, a special kind of file containing a sequence of names and the associated i-number.
3. special files describing devices: specific i-numbers corresponded to specific files.

Difference:
1. The Unit of I/O was the word, not the byte.
2. the lack of erase and kill processing for terminals.
3. No path names:--> a very tirsome way to use in practice. No way to create a directory while the system was running.

The most serious inconvenience of the implementation of the file system, was the difficulty of changing its configuration.

Directories and special files were both made only when the disk was recreated. No surprisingly, there was no notion of mounting a removable disk pack, because the machine had only a single fixed-head disk.

#### Processes control
without fork, how can we build shell?
1. shell closed all its open file, opened the terminal special file for standard input and output.
2. read a command line from the terminal
3. link to the file specifying the command, opened the file, and removed the link. Then it copied a small bootstrap program to the top of memory and jumped to it. Read in the file over the shell code, jumped to the first location of the command. (for exec)
4. the command did its work, then terminated by calling exit. The exit call caused the system to read in a fresh copy of the shell over the terminated command, then jump to its start.